https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vTi_g9QP3O3qzt-rVglrKCbpmQs5vdQS-UhKAdo0a9pBiAmJeNzcB-mlmWjmdfOjLHNuNkqKNdPYHjL/pubhtml?mkt_tok=eyJpIjoiTmpWa05qWTNPV0kxWm1OayIsInQiOiJDODhaYXB1S0Zienp4ck42Wk82RWlKekFqVGpBZG84VzBOR0VubEEwSDkxV1cyNWRTQUhjZmZCOHp0dFdMOHF4ajBQdTJ6NFwvQmMxaVFVWmM0TVhzTkJxcFlQMG5OT2ZIQ1lqczNGTEpxUENNM0xDVFJoQ1g4Z3ZxUUdycGpNY2sifQ%3D%3D#

Step	Activity	Duration	Type	Description

Step 1 Google Cloud Platform Fundamentals - Core Infrastructure (On-demand Training)
  1.1 Google Cloud Platform Fundamentals - Core Infrastructure	12	On-Demand	This class provides an overview of Google Cloud Platform services. Through a combination of presentations, demos, and hands-on labs, participants learn the value of Google Cloud Platform and how its services work together. Participants also get foundational skills in how to use GCP.
  1.2 Instructor Led Training Class Schedule	2	Virtual ILT	Google Cloud certifications validate your expertise and showcase your ability to transform businesses with Google Cloud technology.

Step 2 Architecting with Google Compute Engine (On-demand Training)
  2.1 Google Cloud Platform Fundamentals - Core Infrastructure	12	On-Demand	This class provides an overview of Google Cloud Platform services. Through a combination of presentations, demos, and hands-on labs, participants learn the value of Google Cloud Platform and how its services work together. Participants also get foundational skills in how to use GCP.
  2.2 Essential Cloud Infrastructure: Foundation	11.93	On-Demand	This course introduces participants to the comprehensive and flexible infrastructure and platform services provided by Google Cloud with a focus on Compute Engine. Through a combination of video lectures, demos, and hands-on labs, participants explore and deploy solution elements, including infrastructure components such as networks, virtual machines and applications services. You will learn how to use the Google Cloud through the Cloud Console and Cloud Shell. You'll also learn about the role of a cloud architect, approaches to infrastructure design, and virtual networking configuration with Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), Projects, Networks, Subnetworks, IP addresses, Routes, and Firewall rules.
  2.3 Essential Cloud Infrastructure: Core Services	8	On-Demand	This course introduces participants to the comprehensive and flexible infrastructure and platform services provided by Google Cloud with a focus on Compute Engine. Through a combination of video lectures, demos, and hands-on labs, participants explore and deploy solution elements, including infrastructure components such as networks, systems and applications services. This course also covers deploying practical solutions including customer-supplied encryption keys, security and access management, quotas and billing, and resource monitoring.
  2.4 Elastic Google Cloud Infrastructure: Scaling and Automation  7	On-Demand	This course introduces participants to the comprehensive and flexible infrastructure and platform services provided by Google Cloud. Through a combination of video lectures, demos, and hands-on labs, participants explore and deploy solution elements, including securely interconnecting networks, load balancing, autoscaling, infrastructure automation and managed services.
  2.5 Reliable Google Cloud Infrastructure: Design and Process	8	On-Demand	This course equips students to build highly reliable and efficient solutions on Google Cloud using proven design patterns. It is a continuation of the Architecting with Google Compute Engine or Architecting with Google Kubernetes Engine course and assumes hands-on experience with the technologies covered in either of those courses. Through a combination of presentations, design activities, and hands-on labs, participants learn to define and balance business and technical requirements to design Google Cloud deployments that are highly reliable, highly available, secure, and cost-effective.

Step 3 Migrating to Google Cloud (On-demand Training)
  3.1 Migrating to Google Cloud	8	On-Demand	This course introduces participants to the strategies to migrate from a source environment to Google Cloud. Participants are introduced to Google Cloud's fundamental concepts and more in depth topics, like creating virtual machines, configuring networks and managing access and identities. The course then covers the installation and migration process of Migrate for Compute Engine, including special features like test clones and wave migrations.

Step 4 Reliable Google Cloud Infrastructure: Design and Process (On-demand Training)
  4.1 Reliable Google Cloud Infrastructure: Design and Process	8	On-Demand	This course equips students to build highly reliable and efficient solutions on Google Cloud using proven design patterns. It is a continuation of the Architecting with Google Compute Engine or Architecting with Google Kubernetes Engine course and assumes hands-on experience with the technologies covered in either of those courses. Through a combination of presentations, design activities, and hands-on labs, participants learn to define and balance business and technical requirements to design Google Cloud deployments that are highly reliable, highly available, secure, and cost-effective.

Step 5 Getting Started with Google Kubernetes Engine (On-demand Training)
  5.1 Getting Started with Google Kubernetes Engine	16	On-Demand	Learn how to containerize workloads in Docker containers, deploy them to Kubernetes clusters provided by Google Kubernetes Engine, and scale those workloads to handle increased traffic. You’ll also explore how to continuously deploy new code in a Kubernetes cluster to provide application updates.

Step 6 Create and Manage Cloud Resources (Qwiklabs Quest)
  6.1 A Tour of Google Cloud Hands-on Labs	1	Lab	In this introductory-level lab, you will take your first steps with GCP by getting hands-on practice with the Google Cloud Platform console—an in-browser UI that lets you access and manage Google Cloud services. You will identify key features of GCP and also learn the ins and outs of the Qwiklabs environment. If you are new to cloud computing or looking for an overview of GCP and Qwiklabs, you are in the right place. Read on to learn about the specifics of this lab and areas that you will get hands-on practice with.
  6.2 Creating a Virtual Machine	1	Lab	In this hands-on lab you'll learn how to create virtual machine instances of various machine types using the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Console and using the gcloud command line. You'll also learn how to connect an NGINX web server to your virtual machine.
  6.2 Compute Engine: Qwik Start - Windows	1	Lab	In this hands-on lab, you will learn how to launch a Windows Server instance in Google Compute Engine, and connect to it using the Remote Desktop Protocol.
  6.3 Getting Started with Cloud Shell and gcloud	1	Lab	In this hands-on lab you will learn how to connect to computing resources hosted on the Google Cloud Platform via Cloud Shell with the gcloud command-line.
  6.4 Kubernetes Engine: Qwik Start	1	Lab	In this lab, you get hands on practice with container creation and application deployment with GKE.
  6.5 Set Up Network and HTTP Load Balancers	1	Lab	In this hands-on lab, you'll learn the differences between a network load balancer and a HTTP load balancer, and how to set them up for your applications running on Google Compute Engine virtual machines.
  6.6 Create and Manage Cloud Resources: Challenge Lab	1	Lab	This challenge lab tests your skills and knowledge from the labs in the Getting Started: Create and Manage Cloud Resources quest. You should be familiar with the content of labs before attempting this lab.

Step 7 Perform Foundational Infrastructure Tasks in Google Cloud (Qwiklabs Quest)
  7.1 Cloud Storage: Qwik Start - Cloud Console	0.5	Lab	Cloud Storage allows world-wide storage and retrieval of any amount of data at any time. You can use Cloud Storage for a range of scenarios including serving website content, storing data for archival and disaster recovery, or distributing large data objects to users via direct download. In this hands-on lab you will learn how to use the Cloud Console to create a storage bucket, then upload objects, create folders and subfolders, and make those objects publicly accessible.
  7.1 Cloud Storage: Qwik Start - CLI/SDK	0.5	Lab	Cloud Storage allows world-wide storage and retrieval of any amount of data at any time. You can use Cloud Storage for a range of scenarios including serving website content, storing data for archival and disaster recovery, or distributing large data objects to users via direct download. In this hands-on lab you will learn how to create a storage bucket, upload objects to it, create folders and subfolders in it, and make objects publicly accessible using the Google Cloud command line. Throughout this lab you'll be able to verify your work in the Console by going to Navigation menu > Storage. You'll just need to refresh your browser after each command is run to see the new items you've created.
  7.2 Cloud IAM: Qwik Start	1	Lab	Google Cloud's Identity and Access Management (IAM) service lets you create and manage permissions for GCP resources. Cloud IAM unifies access control for GCP services into a single system and provides a consistent set of operations. In this hands-on lab you learn how to assign a role to a second user and remove assigned roles associated with Cloud IAM. More specifically, you sign in with 2 different sets of credentials to experience how granting and revoking permissions works from GCP Project Owner and Viewer roles.
  7.3 Cloud Monitoring: Qwik Start	0.8	Lab	This lab shows you how to monitor a Google Compute Engine virtual machine (VM) instance with Cloud Monitoring. Watch the short videos Monitor Health of All Your Cloud Apps with Google Cloud monitoring and Monitor a VM Instance with Cloud monitoring, GCP Essentials.
  7.4 Cloud Functions: Qwik Start - Console	0.25	Lab	Cloud Functions is a serverless execution environment for building and connecting cloud services. With Cloud Functions you write simple, single-purpose functions that are attached to events emitted from your cloud infrastructure and services. Your Cloud Function is triggered when an event being watched is fired. Your code executes in a fully managed environment. There is no need to provision any infrastructure or worry about managing any servers. Cloud Functions are written in Javascript and execute in a Node.js environment on Google Cloud. You can take your Cloud Function and run it in any standard Node.js runtime which makes both portability and local testing a breeze.
  7.5 Cloud Functions: Qwik Start - Command Line	0.5	Lab	Cloud Functions is a serverless execution environment for building and connecting cloud services. With Cloud Functions you write simple, single-purpose functions that are attached to events emitted from your cloud infrastructure and services. Your Cloud Function is triggered when an event being watched is fired. Your code executes in a fully managed environment. There is no need to provision any infrastructure or worry about managing any servers. Cloud Functions can be written in Node.js, Python, and Go, and are executed in language-specific runtimes as well. You can take your Cloud Function and run it in any standard Node.js runtime which makes both portability and local testing a breeze.
  7.6 Google Cloud Pub/Sub: Qwik Start - Console	0.5	Lab	Google Cloud Pub/Sub is a messaging service for exchanging event data among applications and services. A producer of data publishes messages to a Cloud Pub/Sub topic. A consumer creates a subscription to that topic. Subscribers either pull messages from a subscription or are configured as webhooks for push subscriptions. Every subscriber must acknowledge each message within a configurable window of time.
  7.7 Google Cloud Pub/Sub: Qwik Start - Command Line	0.6	Lab	Google Cloud Pub/Sub is a messaging service for exchanging event data among applications and services. By decoupling senders and receivers, it allows for secure and highly available communication between independently written applications. Google Cloud Pub/Sub delivers low-latency/durable messaging, and is commonly used by developers in implementing asynchronous workflows, distributing event notifications, and streaming data from various processes or devices.
  7.8 Google Cloud Pub/Sub: Qwik Start - Python	0.5	Lab	The Google Cloud Pub/Sub service allows applications to exchange messages reliably, quickly, and asynchronously. To accomplish this, a data producer publishes messages to a Cloud Pub/Sub topic. A subscriber client then creates a subscription to that topic and consumes messages from the subscription. Cloud Pub/Sub persists messages that could not be delivered reliably for up to seven days. In this lab you will learn how to get started publishing messages with Cloud Pub/Sub using the Python client library.
  7.9 Perform Foundational Infrastructure Tasks in Google Cloud: Challenge Lab 1	Lab	You must complete a series of tasks within the allocated time period. Instead of following step-by-step instructions, you'll be given a scenario and a set of tasks - you figure out how to complete it on your own! An automated scoring system (shown on this page) will provide feedback on whether you have completed your tasks correctly. To score 100% you must complete all tasks within the time period! When you take a Challenge Lab, you will not be taught Google Cloud concepts. To build the solution to the challenge presented, use skills learned from the labs in the quest this challenge lab is part of. You will be expected to extend your learned skills; you will be expected to change default values, but new concepts will not be introduced. This lab is only recommended for students who have completed the labs in the Baseline: Data, ML, AI Quest.

Step 8 Set Up and Configure a Cloud Environment in Google Cloud (Qwiklabs Quest)
  8.1 Cloud IAM: Qwik Start	1	Lab	Google Cloud's Identity and Access Management (IAM) service lets you create and manage permissions for GCP resources. Cloud IAM unifies access control for GCP services into a single system and provides a consistent set of operations. In this hands-on lab you learn how to assign a role to a second user and remove assigned roles associated with Cloud IAM. More specifically, you sign in with 2 different sets of credentials to experience how granting and revoking permissions works from GCP Project Owner and Viewer roles.
  8.2 Introduction to SQL for BigQuery and Cloud SQL	1	Lab	This lab serves as an introduction to SQL and is intended to prepare you for the many labs and quests in Qwiklabs on data science topics. This lab is divided into two parts: in the first half, you will learn fundamental SQL querying keywords, which you will run in the BigQuery console on a public dataset that contains information on London bikeshares.
  8.3 Multiple VPC Networks	1.2	Lab	In this lab you create several VPC networks and VM instances and test connectivity across networks. Specifically, you create two custom mode networks (managementnet and privatenet) with firewall rules and VM instances as shown in this network diagram:
  8.4 Cloud Monitoring: Qwik Start	0.8	Lab	This lab shows you how to monitor a Google Compute Engine virtual machine (VM) instance with Cloud Monitoring. Watch the short videos Monitor Health of All Your Cloud Apps with Google Cloud monitoring and Monitor a VM Instance with Cloud monitoring, GCP Essentials.
  8.5 Deployment Manager - Full Production [ACE]	1.5	Lab	In this lab you will launch a service using Deployment Manager, and monitor it using Cloud Monitoring. You will set up basic black box monitoring with Cloud Monitoring Dashboard and establish uptime check alert notification to trigger incident response.
  8.6 Managing Deployments Using Kubernetes Engine	1	Lab	Dev Ops best practices make use of multiple deployments to manage application deployment scenarios. This lab provides practice in scaling and managing containers to accomplish common scenarios where multiple heterogeneous deployments are used.
  8.7 Set Up and Configure a Cloud Environment in Google Cloud: Challenge Lab 1	Lab	You must complete a series of tasks within the allocated time period. Instead of following step-by-step instructions, you'll be given a scenario and a set of tasks - you figure out how to complete it on your own! An automated scoring system (shown on this page) will provide feedback on whether you have completed your tasks correctly. To score 100% you must complete all tasks within the time period!  When you take a Challenge Lab, you will not be taught GCP concepts. To build the solution to the challenge presented, use skills learned from the labs in the quest this challenge lab is part of. You will be expected to extend your learned skills; you will be expected to change default values, but new concepts will not be introduced.

Step 9 Automating Infrastructure on Google Cloud with Terraform (Qwiklabs Quest)
  9.1 Terraform Fundamentals	0.5	Lab	In this hands-on-lab you will create infrastructure, a virtual machine, using Terraform in the cloud environment.
  9.2 Infrastructure as Code with Terraform	1	Lab	In this hands-on lab you will build, change, provision, and destroy infrastructure using Terraform in the cloud environment.
  9.3 Interact with Terraform Modules	1	Lab	In this hands-on lab you will create and use Terraform modules to organize your cloud configuration.
  9.4 Managing Terraform State	1	Lab	In this hands-on lab you will import existing infrastructure, write Terraform configuration that matches that infrastructure, and manipulate state storage with Terraform.
  9.5 Automating Infrastructure on Google Cloud with Terraform: Challenge Lab   1.5	Lab	In this challenge lab, you will be tested on your knowledge to import, create, reprovision, destroy, and update infrastructure using Terraform.

Step 10 Deploy and Manage Cloud Environments with Google Cloud (Qwiklabs Quest)
  10.1 Orchestrating the Cloud with Kubernetes	1.25	Lab	In this lab you will learn how to: Provision a complete Kubernetes cluster using Google Container Engine; Deploy and manage Docker containers using kubectl; and Break an application into microservices using Kubernetes’ Deployments and Services.
  10.2 Deployment Manager - Full Production [ACE]	1.5	Lab	In this lab you will launch a service using Deployment Manager, and monitor it using Cloud Monitoring. You will set up basic black box monitoring with Cloud Monitoring Dashboard and establish uptime check alert notification to trigger incident response.
  10.3 Continuous Delivery Pipelines with Spinnaker and Kubernetes Engine   1.5	Lab	Create a Kubernetes Engine cluster, deploy an application, and use Spinnaker to continuously deploy the application when changes are made to the application.
  10.4 Multiple VPC Networks	1.2	Lab	In this lab you create several VPC networks and VM instances and test connectivity across networks. Specifically, you create two custom mode networks (managementnet and privatenet) with firewall rules and VM instances as shown in this network diagram:
  10.5 Site Reliability Troubleshooting with Cloud Monitoring APM	1.5	Lab	The objective of this lab is to familiarize yourself with the specific capabilities of Cloud Monitoring to monitor GKE cluster infrastructure, Istio, and applications deployed on this infrastructure.
  10.6 Deploy and Manage Cloud Environments with Google Cloud: Challenge Lab 1	Lab	You must complete a series of tasks within the allocated time period. Instead of following step-by-step instructions, you'll be given a scenario and a set of tasks - you figure out how to complete it on your own! An automated scoring system (shown on this page) will provide feedback on whether you have completed your tasks correctly. To score 100% you must complete all tasks within the time period! When you take a Challenge Lab, you will not be taught Google Cloud concepts. To build the solution to the challenge presented, use skills learned from the labs in the quest this challenge lab is part of. You will be expected to extend your learned skills; you will be expected to change default values, but new concepts will not be introduced.

Step 11 Optimize Costs for Google Kubernetes Engine (Badge)
  11.1 Managing a GKE Multi-tenant Cluster with Namespaces	1.25	Lab	This lab explores best practices in managing and monitoring a multi-tenant cluster in order to optimize your costs.
  11.2 Exploring Cost-optimization for GKE Virtual Machines	1.5	Lab	In this hands-on lab, you’ll learn how to determine and select the the most cost effective machine type for a GKE application. You will also explore the pros and cons of a multi-zonal cluster.
  11.3 Understanding and Combining GKE Autoscaling Strategies 1.5	Lab	In this lab you will explore the benefits of different Google Kubernetes Engine autoscaling strategies, like Horizontal Pod Autoscaling and Vertical Pod Autoscaling for pod-level scaling, and Cluster Autoscaler and Node Auto Provisioning for node-level scaling.
  11.4 GKE Workload Optimization	1.5	Lab	This lab demonstrates how optimization in your cluster's workloads can lead to an overall optimization of your resources and costs. It walks through a few different workload optimization strategies such as container native load balancing, application load testing, readiness and liveness probes, and pod disruption budgets.
  11.5 Optimize Costs for Google Kubernetes Engine: Challenge Lab 1.5	Lab	In this challenge lab you will be assessed on your knowledge of the following areas: Deploying an app on a multi-tenant cluster, migrating cluster workloads to an optimized node pool, rolling out an application update while maintaining cluster availability, and cluster and pod autoscaling

Step 12 Preparing for the Google Cloud Professional Cloud Architect Exam (On-demand Training)
  12.1 Preparing for the Google Cloud Professional Cloud Architect Exam 4	On-Demand	From the course:"The best way to prepare for the exam is to be competent in the skills required of the job." This course uses a top-down approach to recognize knowledge and skills already known, and to surface information and skill areas for additional preparation. You can use this course to help create your own custom preparation plan. It helps you distinguish what you know from what you don't know. And it helps you develop and practice skills required of practitioners who perform this job. The course follows the organization of the Exam Guide outline, presenting highest-level concepts, "touchstones", for you to determine whether you feel confident about your knowledge of that area and its dependent concepts, or if you want more study. You also will learn about and have the opportunity to practice key job skills, including cognitive skills such as case analysis, identifying technical watchpoints, and developing proposed solutions. These are job skills that are also exam skills. You will also test your basic abilities with Activity Tracking Challenge Labs. And you will have many sample questions similar to those on the exam, including solutions. The end of the course contains an ungraded practice exam quiz, followed by a graded practice exam quiz that simulates the exam-taking experience.

Step 13 Professional Cloud Architect Exam (Certification)
  13.1 Professional Cloud Architect	2	Certification	A Professional Cloud Architect enables organizations to leverage Google Cloud technologies. With a thorough understanding of cloud architecture and Google Cloud Platform, this individual can design, develop, and manage robust, secure, scalable, highly available, and dynamic solutions to drive business objectives.
